[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Are you going
through a breakdown that
seems to be lasting forever?
Are you being run by
unconscious behaviors
that prevent you from believing
you deserve a miracle?
Well, what if I told you there
is such a thing as a miracle
mentor, someone who has
figured out a formula for how
to create the
conditions for miracles
to naturally occur in your life?
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
and joining me,
is the number one New York
Times best-selling author
of, "Happy for No
Reason," Marci Shimoff.
Marcy is also the
co-author of six books
and the "Chicken Soup
for the Soul" series,
as well as a featured
teacher in "The Secret."
Currently, Marcy co-leads
a global online program
called "Your Year of Miracles"
that I'm also joining her on,
which helps thousands of
women from 42 countries
live more miraculous lives.
So clearly, she knows how to
create a miracle in her life.
Welcome.
I'm so glad you're here.
>>MARCI SHIMOFF: I'm so
happy, for great reason,
to get to be here
with you, Lisa.
This is so much fun.
>>LISA: Lots of good reasons.
But it wasn't always
like that for you, right?
>>SHIMOFF: No, I was
not a happy camper.
I, actually, was born depressed.
>>LISA: How is that possible?
>>SHIMOFF: I had a great family,
but I came out of the womb
with existential angst.
The kids were all playing,
I was about four or five,
and everybody's playing
in the playground,
and I just felt this
dark cloud around me.
And there was no explanation
for it at the time.
And when I was older,
I still felt depressed,
but I was very lucky.
And I was lucky because
I had a father who
was the happiest
person on the planet.
I call him my happiness mentor.
And he lived till he was 91.
And every morning he woke up,
he had a big smile on his face,
and his motto was, every
day that I'm breathing
is a good day.
And I remember, Lisa, one day
we were driving down the road
together, and I looked
at him, and I said,
Dad, what's your
best advice for life?
And he looked at me and he
said, honey, just be happy!
And I threw my arms up into
the air in frustration--
I was a teenager--
I said, ugh!
Dad, that's easy for you to say.
You were born that
way, but I wasn't.
What do I do?
And he looked at me and
he said four more words.
He said, honey, I don't know.
And I set my life about
to find out that answer
to that question.
How can I be happy?
>>LISA: What a beautiful dad.
What a beautiful dad.
And you know, it's interesting.
Because some parents would
look at a child like that
and medicate them
or think they need
to be on antidepressants
or so forth.
And you worked this out through
love and through perseverance.
You really did.
>>SHIMOFF: I did.
I've been through a lot
of experimenting with,
what's going to make me happier?
I did do a lot of things.
I was very fortunate
that I started
meditating as a teenager.
That was a huge influence for
me when I started meditating.
I remember right away,
something lifted.
So one layer of
the clouds lifted
when I started meditating.
>>LISA: Why do
you think that is?
How did you start meditating?
>>SHIMOFF: I started
meditating when I was about 16.
Yeah.
>>LISA: And so how
did you get into that?
>>SHIMOFF: Because I had
been sort of unhappy,
I was searching for everything.
And this was back in
the '70s, early '70s.
I was growing up in California,
there was lots of cool stuff
available.
And I came across this
meditation, and I just--
something inside me said, that.
Do that.
And so I did.
And it really, really--
that was the first
thing that was lifted--
a layer of the unhappiness.
>>LISA: And now we know all
about meditation increasing
serotonin, and
dopamine, and all of
these great neurotransmitters.
And you experimented with that
and learned that on your own,
which is amazing.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: And then you wound up
at the Maharishi Institute--
or The University of Maharishi.
What is that?
>>SHIMOFF: Maharishi
University of Management.
So I was 17 years old and
ready to go to college.
And I told my
parents that I wanted
to go to this college,
where everybody meditated.
Everybody did
transcendental meditation--
the staff, the students,
and all the teachers.
And they thought
it was kind of--
not usual.
It wasn't usual.
>>LISA: It wasn't mainstream.
>>SHIMOFF: And they said,
oh, we'll go for a semester,
and then they figured
I would never stay.
It was in Iowa, so, yeah,
I'm not going to stay.
And I went there, and
I felt like I was home.
And it was
consciousness-based education.
So it wasn't just about
learning about chemistry,
or physics, or art.
Actually, everything
was tied together
with this field of study
called the "science
of creative intelligence,"
which is basically studying
the laws of nature, the
laws of the universe,
the universal principles.
And every subject tied
back to that science
of creative intelligence.
And every day, all the staff,
students, and teachers,
we were meditating twice
a day, and it was really
about developing your
consciousness along
with learning the
objective kinds of--
>>LISA: How ahead of its time!
>>SHIMOFF: Totally.
>>LISA: It was so
ahead of its time,
and it's still around today?
>>SHIMOFF: It is.
It's a fully accredited
university to the PhD level.
And for me, it was
just exactly what
I needed because I
also was with people
who cared about something
deeper than most
of the superficial things that
people care about in college.
>>LISA: Yeah, and then it
gave you a deeper experience.
Did you always have
an affinity for India?
Or was it just--
did you?
>>SHIMOFF: I did--
Because I started
meditating at a young age,
I felt a real deep
affinity with India.
And I actually went to
India a number of times.
Most recently I went
for my 60th birthday
and ended up having
a second wedding
ceremony with my husband,
which is a wild story.
I don't know if you--
>>LISA: Yeah!
I'd love to hear it because
the pictures are so beautiful.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
So, many years ago, actually at
this point almost 20 years ago,
I was 39 and I was not married.
I was single, had
never been married,
and really wanted
to get married.
And I went and had a
Vedic astrology reading.
Vedic astrology is the
astrology of East India.
And the astrologers told
me all about my life.
It was so accurate.
And then he said,
oh, everything's
great in your life, except
you want to get married.
And I said, yeah!
He said, well, let me tell you.
Over the next three months,
you're going to meet three men,
they're all foreign,
and not one of them
is going to be your life
partner, your soul mate.
And I said, well,
that never happens.
I never meet three men in a row.
I mean, I can go years without
meeting an interesting guy.
And he said, no, it'll happen.
And then he said, and the
fourth man that'll come along,
he's your husband.
Let me describe him to you.
He'll have dark hair.
He'll be Mediterranean.
He will have been born
and raised in Italy.
He'll love dance and music.
And he will be a therapist.
And he will be six
years younger than you.
At which point.
I said, that's impossible.
I never date younger men.
He said, I can't help it.
He's your destiny.
>>LISA: The detail!
>>SHIMOFF: The detail of that.
And over the next three months,
I met three foreign men,
one right after another.
Two of them are
still dear friends.
And then I forgot
about that reading.
And then nine months
later, Lisa, I
was at the Omega
Institute in New York--
big, big campus.
I was there for a workshop.
And I arrived-- as I pulled
into the parking lot,
there's a woman
getting into her car--
big parking lot,
lots of cars, a woman
getting in her car to leave.
And I had been
there a year earlier
and befriended one
person, and that was her.
And she's getting in her car.
I say, Kathleen,
what are you doing?
How are you doing?
She said, oh, I just
got off of a course.
And I'm leaving.
But do you want to
still meet a guy?
Are you still single?
I said, yeah.
She said, well, there
was a guy on my course.
And I think you might like him.
Do you like big macho guys?
And I said, yeah.
She said, well, he's not that.
Then, she said, do
you like older men?
I said, yeah!
She said, well, he's not that.
I think he's younger than you.
And I said, well, I don't
really want to meet him,
I don't think.
Just as I said that, she turned.
And across the other end of the
parking lot, Sergio is walking.
She said, there he is.
I looked at his energy.
And I said, I've
got to meet him.
And she walked me over to
him and introduced me to him.
They'd just gotten off
of a dance workshop
and before he said hello
to me, he danced me
around this gravel parking lot.
>>LISA: What?
>>SHIMOFF: I looked in his eyes.
And I said, that's
my life partner.
And he is born and raised
in Italy, dark hair,
loves dance and
music, is a therapist,
and is six years
younger than I am.
We've been together ever since.
And we got married in India.
>>LISA: That is amazing.
You got married in
India the first time,
and you went back and
renewed your vows?
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
>>LISA: That's beautiful.
>>SHIMOFF: For those people who
are single, I have to tell you,
good Vedic astrology
can be really accurate.
>>LISA: It can.
And you've always been
a believer in that,
and it's always
worked for your life.
It's interesting.
Some people adhere
to certain schools,
and that really just
works for your life.
>>SHIMOFF: I've seen it.
I've seen it work so
many times it's shocking.
I mean, in 1990, I was
told that in 1996 I'd
have a best-selling book,
and I thought he was crazy.
I didn't even like writing.
And sure enough,
in September 1996,
my first book came out
and went to number one
on the New York Times list.
So it's all in--
I mean, it's bizarre.
>>LISA: I love it.
I love that you have this much
guidance, and you trust it.
So how did you get into
writing about happiness?
I mean, it was a
lifelong journey for you.
>>SHIMOFF: Yes, yes.
Lisa, when I was not happy, in
my early 20s, I was meditating,
but still I wasn't feeling
the deep happiness I wanted.
I did what a lot of people do.
I set five goals for myself.
I set goals for myself.
And for me, it was five goals.
And I'll share them with you
because I think a lot of you
might be able to
relate to these.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>SHIMOFF: I thought, this is
what I needed to be happy--
a great career helping people,
a wonderful life partner,
fabulous friends, a
comfortable home, and the fifth
was the equivalent of
Halle Berry's body.
Now I have four out of the five.
I don't have Halle Berry's
body, but I have a healthy body
for which I'm grateful.
And so I really worked
hard, like a lot of people
do, trying to get
all my ducks in a row
so that I would really be happy.
And I accomplished those things.
I had a great career.
I was helping people.
I had a great partner.
I had lots of great
things happening for me.
And one day, in June of 1998, I
had three books in the top five
on the New York Times
bestseller list.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHIMOFF: I had just given
a speech to 8,000 people.
I had autographed 5,432 books.
My client had a massage
therapist massaging my hand
so I could keep on signing.
I felt like an author rock star.
And at the end of
signing that last book,
I went up to my
hotel room, which
was the penthouse suite that
my client had gotten for me.
And I walked over
to the windows.
There were these beautiful
windows with a panoramic view
of Chicago.
And I looked out the
window, and I turned around,
and I fell onto the bed,
and I burst into tears.
And I burst into tears
because I realized
I had everything I
thought I needed,
and I still wasn't happy.
And I could no
longer fool myself
into thinking that
just the next thing was
going to make me happy.
It was kind of the end
of the road for me.
And that's when I decided,
no matter what I did,
I was going to find
out how to be happy.
And I pretty much
dropped what I was doing,
and I started researching
all the happiness
experts out there.
And I interviewed what I called
unconditionally happy people.
I've interviewed hundreds of
And I started doing
what they did.
And within a short
period of time,
it totally changed my happiness.
I would say, back then,
I was maybe a D plus
if you were grading
me in happiness.
And now, I'm a solid A.
I still am working at it.
I'm a work in progress.
>>LISA: No, it's such an
epidemic for so many people.
And we have depression
as an epidemic.
And there are not
a lot of solutions
other than medication, as it
being a chemicals situation.
Even if you're on
the medication,
you need something else that
gives you practical tools
to enhance your
quality of happiness.
>>SHIMOFF: Totally.
You know, here's what
I found is that we do.
We have an epidemic of
unhappiness in our society.
One out of four women
is on anti-depressants.
That's a lot.
We have more than we've
ever had as a society,
and we're unhappier than ever.
So that's the bad news.
But there's good news.
And the good news is
that science has actually
cracked the happiness code.
We know what it takes
for people to be happier.
You know, I think that
should be headline news.
>>LISA: Yes, we do.
>>SHIMOFF: And it's simple.
So I know we're going to get
to share some of the things
with everybody about how to
raise their happiness level.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
First, let's take a
look here at Marci,
talking about your
happiness set point.
Take a look.
>>SHIMOFF: The
happiness set point
says that no matter what
happens to us, whether it's
good or bad, we will tend to
return to our happiness set
point.
It's like a thermostat setting.
No matter what we do,
unless we consciously
change that
thermostat setting, we
will hover around that happiness
set point, which explains,
by the way, why people
who win the lottery--
you think, oh I'd
win the lottery.
I'd be so happy.
Well, you would be
happier for a few months.
Within a year, you
will tend to return
to your original
happiness set point.
We actually saw an
extraordinary example of this
earlier this morning--
the most extreme situation
that you could possibly
imagine that Elizabeth had.
And I don't know that it
was certainly within a year,
but within time, she returned
to her happiness set point.
So the happiness set point
is the key to our happiness,
and here's how it's determined.
It is 50% genetic.
We're born with it.
I did not get the
good genes on that.
My mother's genes were
not the happy genes,
but my mother has a
great success story.
She did get happy after
I did all this research.
She was my Guinea pig,
and she was in her 70s,
and she got really,
really happy.
It was kind of a
miracle, actually.
So it's 50% genetic.
It's 10% your circumstances,
such a tiny piece of the pie
and yet that's what
everybody is trying to chase
after to make themselves happy.
The other 40% is your habits
of thoughts and behavior.
Now that's what we can really
do a lot about to influence
our happiness.
And I'm going to take
this a step further.
Researchers in the field of
epigenetics studying our genes
have said that our genes can
be influenced by our habits.
That means that 90% of
our happiness set point
can be impacted by
changing our habits.
That's huge.
That really is.
And that's why I'm passionate
about this and about teaching
this to children.
So if you have children
or grandchildren,
I'm going to share
with you some things
today that I want you to take
home, and show them, and share
with them.
So people always ask me,
well, Marci, what do you mean
by being happy for no reason?
Does that mean that
you're walking around 24/7
with a silly grin on your face?
You're just happy no
matter what goes on?
That is not what I mean.
Here's my definition of
being happy for no reason.
Happy for no reason
is an interstate
of peace and
well-being that doesn't
depend on our circumstances.
So, yeah, you might get
upset about something.
You might be afraid
about something.
You might be frustrated
And yet there is a
backdrop of an interstate
of peace and
well-being that doesn't
depend on your circumstances.
>>LISA: OK, you interviewed
people that were happy.
What was the theme-- what
did they have in common?
>>SHIMOFF: So a
couple of things.
First of all, what's so
cool is that no matter where
you are in your happiness
set point, wherever you are,
you can change it.
That, to me, is,
like, hallelujah.
And what I found
about happy people
is that the only difference
between them and everybody else
is that they have
different habits.
And so what they did is
they lived their lives
in the seven main areas
that we'll talk about.
They lived them in an
energy of expansion
rather than an energy
of contraction.
You know the whole
thing about, there's
two energies on the planet.
There's the energy of expansion
and the energy of contraction.
And when you move
towards expansion,
you can't help but be happier.
And when you're contracted,
you can't help but feel bad.
Can I do a little
demonstration with you on this?
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Because expansion
leads to possibilities.
Contraction, it's so limiting.
>>SHIMOFF: It is.
So I want to prove this.
I love proving things
to people, so I'm
going to prove this to you.
And I actually want
everybody to do this with us.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: So I want you
to curl into a little ball
and get really
tight, contracted.
And on the count of three,
we're going say, I feel happy.
Ready?
One, two, three.
>>BOTH: I feel happy.
>>SHIMOFF: OK, sit up.
Do you feel happy now?
>>LISA: No.
>>SHIMOFF: You can't feel happy
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>SHIMOFF: On the other
hand, when we're expanded,
we can't help but feel good.
So go like that.
On the count of three, I want
you to say, I feel depressed.
OK, ready?
One, two, three.
>>BOTH: I feel depressed!
>>SHIMOFF: Did you
feel depressed?
>>LISA: No.
It doesn't work.
>>SHIMOFF: No, you can't.
So does this mean I want
people walking around
like this all day long?
No, they'll lock you up.
But what it means
is when we move
throughout our day
towards the energy in life
of the things that expand
us, we start to feel better.
>>LISA: How do we
know what that is?
What expands us?
What's a good example?
>>SHIMOFF: So I found that there
are 21 main happiness habits,
and they fall into
seven categories.
And what we need to look at are
these seven categories in life.
And it's hard for people to
remember seven of anything.
So I created a little
metaphor for it.
It's called building your
inner home for happiness.
And a home has seven elements.
It's got a foundation, four
corner pillars, a roof,
and a garden.
And here's how your inner
home for happiness looks.
And I want you to
think about, where
are you the weakest in this?
What are the areas
you're the weakest in?
Where are you the strongest?
Because where
you're going to get
the most change is by
starting in the area where
you're the weakest.
>>LISA: Great awareness.
>>SHIMOFF: Yep.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: So the foundation
is taking responsibility
for your happiness.
>>LISA: That's not always easy.
>>SHIMOFF: That's where you
go, you can't blame anything.
You can't complain about things.
You can't feel shame, which
is blaming yourself-- blaming,
shaming, and complaining.
Their victim behaviors.
They will not make you happy.
So that's taking responsibility
for your happiness is,
not blaming, shaming, or
complaining, but saying,
I can take charge of raising
my happiness set point.
>>LISA: That's a great point.
>>SHIMOFF: Really
important place to start.
>>LISA: Yes, you're
building your inner home.
>>SHIMOFF: It is.
It's not saying, I'll be
happier when I get married,
or I'll be happier when I have a
better job, or make more money.
>>LISA: Or, I'm not
happy because this, that,
and the other thing happened.
That's being a victim.
>>SHIMOFF: Then, there's the
pillar of the mind, the heart,
the body, and the soul.
The pillar of the
mind, you know well.
It's about having the
thoughts, the neural pathways
of happiness.
The heart is about
feeling gratitude,
living with an open heart--
gratitude, loving
kindness, forgiveness.
The body is having the
biochemistry of happiness,
having the right
serotonin and dopamine.
The soul is feeling
connected to the greater
energy of life, feeling
connected to your spirit.
And then there's the
roof of your home
for happiness, which is
about purpose, living
a purpose-filled life.
And finally, the garden
is about your people
who you're surrounded with.
>>LISA: Now the four pillars,
the brain, and the soul,
and the heart--
it's all things that
you can do in the body
that you can actually do to
enhance the happiness, right?
>>SHIMOFF: Every one
of those seven areas
has specific habits
that you can practice
to raise your happiness
set point as it
relates to that area.
Because here's what I've seen.
People might be really great
at surrounding themselves
with wonderful people
or taking responsibility
for their happiness.
But they're really bad
about their thoughts,
or they're doing work that's
not passionate for them.
We're only as strong
as our weakest area.
So that's why I say, take a look
at which of those seven areas
are you the weakest in?
And then start there.
For me, it was the body.
I didn't have enough serotonin.
This is why I was
unhappy as a kid.
I didn't have the
biochemistry of happiness.
It was that, for me,
and also my thoughts.
Those got me tripped up.
And when I addressed those
two areas, everything changed.
>>LISA: How did you
address the serotonin?
Did you do things
that stimulated?
>>SHIMOFF: I did-- a
lot of natural things
that stimulated serotonin.
I did exercise.
I started doing
exercise that I loved,
not exercise that I
hated because when you're
hating what you're doing, that's
not great for your serotonin.
>>LISA: What's
exercise you hate?
>>SHIMOFF: Well,
I'm sorry, Lisa.
I know you're a bicycle fanatic.
I don't like bike riding!
I'm a Zumba person.
I love dancing, and Zumba--
>>LISA: I do, too, yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: So exercise.
There are specific, like--
I do a meditation called a
"sunning meditation," that
takes a minute and a half, and
it increases your serotonin
by stimulating the pineal gland.
>>LISA: Do you imagine the sun?
>>SHIMOFF: No,
you stand outside.
I learned this from a chi
gong master, [INAUDIBLE]..
You stand outside with
your eyes closed--
this is the important piece.
Your eyes are closed, and you
have your eyes facing the sun.
And through your
closed eyelids, you
imagine the sun coming
into to your brain
stimulating the pineal gland
and going down and stimulating
your thyroid, your
thymus, your adrenals,
and imagining your
brain's waking up.
A couple minutes of
that with your eyes
closed will start to
stimulate serotonin.
Doing that twice a day for a
week raises your serotonin.
>>LISA: Just talking
about it makes me happy.
It does.
It really feels
like a soothing--
kind of like an
ayurvedic oil meditation.
Yes.
That's beautiful.
And the sun, the vitamin
D, and everything that
brings you into that place.
>>SHIMOFF: It really
stimulates the serotonin
so that you can sleep better.
You have more melatonin so
you can sleep better at night.
So a lot of people
really don't have
the biochemistry of happiness.
That's an important thing.
But you know where I find
people get tripped up
the most is their thoughts.
We don't have the neural
pathways of happiness.
We have so many
negative thoughts.
>>LISA: Survival.
>>SHIMOFF: The average person
has 60,000 thoughts a day,
and 80% of them are negative.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHIMOFF: And they
affect us dramatically.
Can I do a little demonstration?
>>LISA: Yes, definitely.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>SHIMOFF: Yes, do this at home.
If you have kids,
do this with kids.
Kids love this.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: So every thought we
think and every feeling we feel
creates chemicals in the body
that flush through our body
all day long, neuropeptides,
neurochemicals.
I'm just going to
use your right arm.
It's easier.
Is that OK?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: As I press
down against your arm,
I want you to stay strong
or resist my pressing, OK?
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: Stay strong.
Very nice.
You can feel your
arm going strong.
Your arm locked there.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: Put your arm down.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: This is not any
form of magic or trickery.
I'm not trying to deceive you.
This is based on
applied kinesiology.
So now three times, Lisa,
I'd like you to say,
I'm a bad person.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: We know you're not.
But put your arm out.
Stay strong.
Ugh.
No energy there.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHIMOFF: You went weak.
Now three times.
I'm a good person.
>>LISA: I'm a good person.
>>SHIMOFF: Arm out.
Stay strong.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>SHIMOFF: I want to
show you one more.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: You're a fabulous
mother to a beautiful daughter
Kayla, who I adore.
>>LISA: Yeah, she
loves you, too.
>>SHIMOFF: And she's great.
Now as a parent, my
suspicion is, at some point,
you've told her, honey,
don't use the word "can't."
>>LISA: Yes, I have.
I have.
Yeah, that was a four-letter
word in our family.
>>SHIMOFF: Well, this
is so cool to show kids.
Three times I want you to
say, I can't do a good job.
>>LISA: I can't do a good job.
I can't do a good job.
>>SHIMOFF: Arm out.
Stay strong.
>>LISA: Ugh!
No matter how hard I try.
>>SHIMOFF: Now three
times, I can do a good job.
>>LISA: I can do a good job.
I can do a good job.
>>SHIMOFF: Put your arm out.
Stay strong.
Isn't that great?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: If you have kids, as
I told you, show this to them.
Because they so go, oh, my gosh.
It really proves a point.
>>LISA: The power
of your thoughts.
>>SHIMOFF: Absolutely.
And 80% of our thoughts in
a given day are negative,
and we wonder why
we're so exhausted
at the end of the day.
>>LISA: We're constantly
pummeling ourselves.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
>>LISA: And not giving
ourselves a fighting chance.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
And what I found is that
happy people have learned
how to reverse that tendency.
I call it the Velcro
Teflon syndrome.
And what it means is our minds
are Velcro for the negative.
We just remember that negative.
It sticks to us.
And they're Teflon
for the positive.
The positive slide off of us.
You know, if you
get 10 compliments
in a day and one criticism,
you focus on that one negative.
>>LISA: It's just
natural to do that.
>>SHIMOFF: Because of
that negativity bias,
those 80% of our thoughts
that are negative,
we inherited that from
our caveman ancestors.
But happy people reverse that.
They actually Velcro
the positives,
and they Teflon the negatives.
And I'll give you
a couple of things
to do to Velcro those positives
that are so crazy simple
and you go, oh, that can't
possibly do anything.
>>LISA: I would love that.
>>SHIMOFF: But it does.
>>LISA: I know
people like this that
are just happy for no reason.
They're just happy.
And I wonder how?
They have wonderful,
magical, miraculous lives.
>>SHIMOFF: They have learned
to create neural pathways,
or they were born that way--
maybe their happiness set
point.
They were born that way.
But they've got neural
pathways for the positive.
And that's what we want to do.
We want to create the brain
circuitry for the positive.
Two crazy simple steps, the
first step is, look for it.
Be on the lookout.
Like, you're a detective.
You are on the
lookout for the good.
One of the women that
I interviewed for Happy
for No Reason, she pretends
that she's the Academy Awards
committee.
And every day her job is to
give out five Academy Awards.
So she's out for a
walk in the park,
and she sees a little
cute fluffy white dog.
And she goes, oh, that
dog gets my Academy Award
for the cutest dog of the day.
Maybe she'll go up to the
owner and tell the owner.
Or she doesn't even
have to do that,
but she's on the
lookout for the good.
>>LISA: There's always
something to be grateful for.
>>SHIMOFF: There is.
And it's just a matter of
practicing looking for it.
Then the second step
is to savor the good.
Research shows that it takes
20 seconds for the good things
to actually land and to start
creating new neural pathways
in the brain.
It doesn't take anywhere near
that long for the negatives
to get reinforced.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHIMOFF: But the
positives take 20 seconds.
So that means you've
got to actually sit
with that positive thing
and appreciate it rather
than sloughing it off.
>>LISA: I've heard that
you have to have at least
four positive
thoughts to counteract
the damage from every
one negative thought.
>>SHIMOFF: You do.
And with the positive
ones, you need
to savor them for 20 seconds.
So if somebody gives
you a compliment,
they say, oh, you did a
great job on that project.
Instead of saying,
it was nothing,
when you knew you worked
really hard on it.
Or instead of saying,
oh, I had a lot of help,
you actually take
in the compliment.
And you say, thank you.
You know, I worked
really hard on that,
and I was happy with
how it turned out.
>>LISA: sometimes
it's so hard to do.
>>SHIMOFF: I know.
It's not the way we were taught.
>>LISA: It's counter-intuitive.
>>SHIMOFF: It is, because
we think we're bragging.
>>LISA: Right.
We need to be humble.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah,
it's not bragging.
It's actually just
owning what is good.
It's owning what's
good in your life.
>>LISA: Do you do this?
>>SHIMOFF: I try to.
I'm not perfect.
But I do work on it, you know?
And if I'm having a
bad day, I go, OK,
time to give out five
Academy Awards and time
to stop and let that sunset
that's so beautiful sink in
for 20 seconds.
Because I know that when
it sinks in for 20 seconds,
I'm creating new brain circuits.
That's the whole point of it.
>>LISA: Do you
still see yourself
as that depressed
little girl that's
trying every day to be happy?
>>SHIMOFF: I really don't.
>>LISA: Good for you.
What I see is I see--
honestly, I feel gratitude
that that was my life journey
because I believe that
there are no accidents
and that I had a mission, a
calling, to teach happiness.
This is what I'm
on the planet for.
And I wouldn't have been able to
be anywhere near as effective,
I don't think, had I
just been born happy.
I would have been
like my dad and said,
I don't know what
to do to be happy.
>>LISA: Right.
You would have gotten a regular
job and moved into the world.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: But this way
you're inspiring people.
How much of you fulfilling
this purpose and this passion
in your life has to do
with you being happy?
>>SHIMOFF: You know,
I think we have
it backwards in our society.
We think that when
we are successful
or when we have all the things
in line, we will be happy.
It's actually that
happiness comes first,
and then we bring that more
to our passion in life.
You know, happy people, that
roof that I talked about?
That living an inspired life?
Happy people naturally
live an inspired life.
I'll give you an example.
My dad, the happy guy.
So my dad was a dentist.
And he loved being a dentist.
He loved it.
It was his passion.
>>LISA: Made him happy.
>>SHIMOFF: But when he retired--
he was he was 72
when he retired.
And what happens statistically
to people when they retire,
is they die.
They get sick or they die.
Not because they're
suddenly older,
but because they've
lost their passion.
And my dad said that's
not going to happen to me.
And he analyzed what he
loved about being a dentist.
And he realized
that what he loved
was working with his
hands in intricate ways.
And he took up his second
profession, needlepoint.
And he became a
master needlepointer.
He won awards throughout
all Northern California.
>>LISA: Well, how great.
>>SHIMOFF: He would
go in every morning
and sit down in my
sister's bedroom
and put on his dental
magnifying glasses.
And that was his new
needlepoint office,
and he would do
his needle points.
And you know, it's the
idea of doing your passion.
I mean, Lisa, you are
living your passion.
And I have never seen a happy--
really deeply
person-- happy person.
And I mean, when I say
happy for no reason,
I mean, happy that lasts.
I mean an interstate of
peace and well-being that
isn't dependent on your--
>>LISA: Your circumstances,
your conditions, yes.
>>SHIMOFF: And what I've
seen about happy people
is that they bring their
happiness to their life
circumstances.
They don't wait for life to
bring them their happiness.
They're happy in the moment.
Whatever they're
doing, they're happy.
But they're also, they've
found those things
that they're on the planet
here to do, and they do them.
>>LISA: Well, it truly
is an inside job.
It's not circumstantial,
or what you have,
and how much you have.
Although, there is so
much marketing that says
we are happier and better
people if we buy this
and if we do this.
Yes, it all external.
>>SHIMOFF: You know, if
money, success, fame,
looks were the
secret to happiness,
we would have a lot more happy
people in Hollywood, right?
And we don't.
We see.
We hear the tragic
stories of people
who have all the goodies.
It's not about that.
And I think that that's a really
important message for all of us
to get, the awareness
that it is--
that there are some
habits that we can change
to raise our happiness level.
>>LISA: You and I
know several people
who have lost their homes
completely in these fires,
in these California fires, with
only the clothes on their backs
and barely shoes.
And they have been amazing.
>>SHIMOFF: Amazing.
They really are the
embodiment-- to me,
the examples of what
happy for no reason is.
Of course, it's devastating.
But they go, you know what?
I still have what's
most important.
>>LISA: Health and life.
>>SHIMOFF: Health and life.
Exactly.
>>LISA: Yeah.
So you have spent 15
years, maybe more,
talking about happiness,
researching happiness.
How did you take that
into a space of miracles,
of the miraculous in your life?
>>SHIMOFF: So I found myself
waking up every morning feeling
like, wow.
I am living this amazing life.
I'd never know what was
going to show up that day.
>>LISA: Did you still
have dips in the way?
>>SHIMOFF: Only when I stopped
doing some of the practices.
So when I stopped exercising,
I would have a dip.
I had to always remind myself.
And I'm fortunate because I
have wonderful people around me,
like you.
>>LISA: Accountability partners.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
Accountability buddies.
And you're one of my happiness
soul sisters and miracle soul
sisters.
And so I found myself
waking up going,
this is a miraculous life.
It was as though things were
happening that we're just
supposed to be happening.
I felt like I was
living in the flow.
>>LISA: So you spent
your whole life
researching happiness,
writing about happiness,
and then you really transitioned
into this wonderful space
of miracles, which
I'm so excited to be
a part of this with you
in your year of miracles.
How did that happen for you?
>>SHIMOFF: And I am so
thrilled, Lisa, truly thrilled
that you are one of a miracles
leader and sister with me.
>>LISA: Talk about
Academy Award.
I feel like I won it.
>>SHIMOFF: I feel like I won
it to get to do with you!
So much fun!
So I was finding myself in
these last decades, last decade,
waking up every
morning going, I can't
believe this life I'm living.
And the outside things were
great, but it was the inside.
I was feeling deeply happy.
And as a result,
happiness and love, to me,
are the two biggest energetic--
highest energetic vibrations
on the planet.
>>LISA: One of
the things I think
that is so cool about your story
is that you're not sitting here
saying, I have a charmed life.
You work at this.
>>SHIMOFF: I do.
>>LISA: Intentionally.
>>SHIMOFF: It's a practice.
It's an ongoing practice.
And what I find is
when I'm feeling
that happy for no reason, I
attract to me amazing things.
It becomes a miraculous life.
I call it living in
the miracle zone,
where you're just in the
flow, where life is working.
Because happiness, love,
high energetic vibrations,
they attract to
you these miracles.
>>LISA: It's like a formula.
>>SHIMOFF: It is.
If you have been a
very depressed person.
You've had a lot
of circumstances
happen in your life.
You can put this together
with these practices
and constantly repeat them
and start to shift your life.
It's a formula.
>>SHIMOFF: I've seen
it with, at this point,
thousands and
thousands of people.
It does not matter what
your circumstances are.
It doesn't matter what
your past has been.
Everyone can do some of
these simple practices
and feel happier, be happier.
And then, it's like this
self-perpetuating cycle,
where you start to just--
you're in this
great energy spiral
of drawing in amazing
things happening.
I was finding myself
waking up going,
every morning is a miracle.
Miracles are happening today.
And so I created this program.
>>LISA: Simple steps, you said?
>>SHIMOFF: Simple steps.
>>LISA: OK, we like simple.
>>SHIMOFF: Shall we do some?
>>LISA: Yeah!
>>SHIMOFF: OK, one thing
to get you immediately
into the miracle zone
is to do a practice
that I learned from the
Institute of HeartMath.
You know them well.
>>LISA: Yes, they've
been on the show, yes.
>>SHIMOFF: They have.
It's a simple technique called
the inner ease technique.
And it moves you from
being stressed out
to being in the zone.
>>LISA: I could use this.
Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: And what they
call heart rhythm coherence.
And by the way,
before I show it,
I just want to say
that five minutes,
they found five minutes
of being angry or upset
will weaken your immune
system for up to six hours,
whereas five minutes
of feeling happy,
heart open, love, that will
strengthen your immune system
for up to six hours.
So we're just going
to do about a minute,
but it will have
a powerful effect.
And you're going to be my
Guinea pig, if I you will.
>>LISA: I'm happy to be.
>>SHIMOFF: I want
you to tell me how
you feel different after
you're done with this, OK?
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: And I want
everybody to do this with us.
>>LISA: OK.
So play along.
>>SHIMOFF: Play along.
It's no fun to just watch us.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: OK, three steps.
So let's close our eyes
because it goes a little deeper
with our eyes closed.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: All right,
so the first step
is to simply place the palm
of your hand over your heart.
Now the simple act of putting
your hand on your heart
starts the flow of a
chemical called oxytocin.
It's one of those
happy chemicals.
And what it does is, it's also
known as the love or bonding
hormone.
We feel more oxytocin when
we're bonded or connected
with each other.
But right now, just
your hand on your heart
is stimulating oxytocin.
Now the second
step is to imagine
that you're breathing in
and out through the center
of your heart.
Just imagine that your inhales
are coming into your heart,
and your exhales are
going out of your heart.
You can do this
at your own pace,
but feeling or imagining
your breath coming
into and out of your heart.
You may already
notice that you're
starting to feel a shift.
The final step, on each inhale,
breathe into your heart love,
ease, and compassion.
Your exhales, you just breathe
normally out of your heart.
But on each inhale, breathe
in love, ease, and compassion.
And you can think of a time
when you felt that or imagined
somebody that you feel that with
or you can just silently say
the words, love,
ease, and compassion,
and it will have
the same result.
And one more time,
breathing that in.
And on the exhale, you can take
your hand away and slowly open
your eyes.
And just notice, just
notice, do you feel a shift?
So how do you feel
any different?
>>LISA: I am actually
a little giggly.
It reminds me of-- so a
story, I was in LA, stuck
in massive traffic, and
late to the airport.
Somebody came around me, and
bypassed all the traffic,
and went into the emergency
lane, and cut in front of me.
And I thought to myself, I'm
over here obeying the law.
I'm trying to catch a flight.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>LISA: And this person
totally disobeyed the law
and cut in front of me.
And I was so frustrated.
And I wish I had this technique!
>>SHIMOFF: Right!
Right, right.
And what's cool
is, you don't have
to do it with your eyes closed.
>>LISA: Because I did not
go to calm in that moment.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: No, no, no.
>>SHIMOFF: And so
here's what I do.
I do this a couple
of times a day.
And what it does is it
gets you in the habit.
I've done this probably
thousands of times now.
All I have to do is put
my hand up to my heart,
and I immediately go into,
they call it the love response,
because it's got its own brain
chemistry, brain wiring, heart
rhythms, and biochemistry,
this love response.
So just practice doing it
a couple of times a day.
You can do it with
your eyes open.
I do it when I'm on the
phone with somebody.
I do it when I'm driving.
You don't have to--
you can still pay
attention to the road.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
It would've been
perfect, this morning.
And I would love to have
a little more compassion,
for I had no idea what
he was going through.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: So to have
that anywhere, I mean,
imagine what this
world would be like
if we were all compassionate.
>>SHIMOFF: Totally, if we were
all walking around feeling
more--
feeling our own
love and compassion.
Then, it changes everything.
>>LISA: So then this
leads to the miracles.
What does miracle mean to you?
What is your definition of that?
>>SHIMOFF: So the
dictionary definition,
Webster's definition
of a miracle,
is a surprise and
welcome event that
is not explainable by
science and that can often
be attributed to
grace or divine grace.
And so here's the deal.
We can't create miracles.
I believe that miracles
come to us from grace.
But what we can do is
we can put ourselves
in that flow of grace.
We can put ourselves in
the flow of miracles.
There's a great quote
by Sri Ramakrishna,
who said the winds of
grace are always blowing.
We have to raise our sales.
And that's what it is.
And that's what we teach
in Your Year of Miracles,
is we teach people how to
raise their sales to be
living in this miracle zone.
>>LISA: Is it different
than intentions?
>>SHIMOFF: It is,
to some degree.
Intention is part of it,
but it's more than that.
And maybe what we
can look at is,
what are the mistakes that
people make that keep them
from living more in
the miracle zone?
And then I'll share
with you what you
can do to write those mistakes.
>>LISA: Because I'm
thinking, Marci, of times
where I need a miracle.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: Like, I need a
straight-up Hail Mary.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, and a lot
of people feel that way.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: And I
understand that deeply.
And I know that
any of the things
that we're going to talk about,
they put you more in that state
where the miracle,
you'll see the miracle.
It'll show up more.
>>LISA: That's creating
the environment for it.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
So number one, one of the
biggest mistakes people make
is they hold on.
They hold onto the past,
and they don't let go.
And when we don't let go,
the universe cannot come
in and give us
what it is we want.
We can't get the new.
You know, there's a saying,
nature abhors a vacuum.
So when you're filled with old
stuff, old thoughts, old stuff
that you're hanging
onto, the universe
will not bring in
miracles for you.
And so I'm going to give
you a simple practice.
>>LISA: Oh, I love it.
>>SHIMOFF: To get you in
the habit of letting go.
>>LISA: Right, because that
pattern of neural grooves,
talk about creating
patterns of negativity.
It drives deep.
>>SHIMOFF: It does drive deep.
And I was not a
good letter goer.
I was a hanger-oner.
And so I'm going
to start you off
on letting go of
some physical stuff
because that helps you
let go emotionally.
It gets you trained to let go.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHIMOFF: And the
practice that I'm
going to share with
you is called--
is a feng shui practice.
I learned it from
a feng shui master.
Feng shui is the Chinese
art of placement and flow,
how to create placement
in your home for flow.
And it's simply,
I call it 27 by 9.
You give away 27 items a
day for nine days in a row.
You give away or throw away
27 items a day for nine days.
And you think, I
don't have 27 items I
could give away or throw away.
You do.
>>LISA: You do.
>>SHIMOFF: You do.
You will be amazed how
many like broken pens
you have and all
kinds of things.
And you don't skip a day because
each day it's cumulative.
Each day builds on the last day.
And miracles happen at
the end of the nine days.
People have jobs-- job
offers come to them
that they've wanted for years.
>>LISA: Create the space.
>>SHIMOFF: They meet
their life partner.
I mean, it's uncanny
what happens.
>>LISA: That's awesome.
That's awesome.
And all of that holds energy.
It keeps us--
>>SHIMOFF: It does.
It does.
And so you're saying, I'm ready.
I'm willing.
I'm letting go of
that old stuff.
>>LISA: Releasing it.
>>SHIMOFF: Releasing it.
And when you do
that, you also start
to be able to release some
of the emotional baggage
that we carry.
>>LISA: Yeah, and
you create space.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
>>LISA: I'm thinking
of 27 things
I can let go of right now.
I'm gonna get a box.
I'm gonna put it all in there.
>>SHIMOFF: And some of it
you're going to put away,
and some of them
you're going to donate.
It feels so extraordinary.
A number of years ago, there
was a great book called
"The Magic Art of Tidying Up."
And it was based on
that same principle.
But this is simple.
27 items for nine days,
and then watch your life
and see what happens.
>>LISA: Have you ever moved
and you can't understand
how you have so much stuff?
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, I know.
>>LISA: And it multiplies.
And, yes, things
that we don't let
go of that are no
longer working,
that are broken,
that someday you'll
fix, or stain on the
shirt, and all of that.
Yeah, it creates this space.
I used to do this on my
desk and cleared the desk.
And every time I did that,
a new job would come--
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: And then, I forgot.
>>LISA: Something that was
rewarding and validating,
I would remember.
>>SHIMOFF: It puts
you in the zone,
puts you in the miracle zone.
>>LISA: That's the miracle zone.
>>SHIMOFF: That's
the miracle zone.
And here's another one.
I want to give you
some practical stuff.
You and I, we love
the practical.
>>LISA: We do.
We do.
>>SHIMOFF: So when
people ask me,
what's the biggest thing
that keeps people out
of the miracle zone, I
would say the answer is,
lack of self-love.
When we don't love
ourselves enough,
we don't feel
worthy of miracles,
and we push them away.
They're there, and we're
going-- subconsciously,
we're not doing
this consciously.
But, subconsciously,
we're going, no, no, no.
>>LISA: As women,
we tend to also want
to play small and hide.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
That's exactly right.
>>LISA: But we're here.
>>SHIMOFF: Exactly.
You know, think about ways
that you-- and unconsciously
are pushing away good
in your life, daily.
Things like, people give you a
compliment, you push it away.
People offer you support,
and you feel like,
oh, no, I've got to help
them twice as much as--
>>LISA: I don't deserve it.
>>SHIMOFF: I don't deserve it.
Or we feel like if
good comes our way,
we feel guilty because we
feel like we should have
had to work harder to get it.
You know, all of these
are ways that we're
pushing away our good.
And so what we want
to do is open up
to self-love to feel
more worthy of it.
And I'll tell you in a
minute what I do for that,
but I want to tell you a quick
story that really shifted
things for me around this.
And it's around money.
I know that a lot of people
want to receive more money.
They want more money, right?
And I remember years ago,
probably 20 years ago,
I went to a workshop
with Marianne Williamson,
who is an extraordinary--
she's now a dear friend--
she's just an extraordinary
teacher, and woman, and person.
And she said that if you
start making a lot of money
and you don't raise your
consciousness, if you don't
have that feeling of
worthiness, if you
don't raise your consciousness,
you will inevitably lose it.
And I remember thinking, no way.
That will never happen to me.
If I started making a lot
of money, I won't lose that.
Well, sure enough,
a year later, I
started making a
lot of money, way
more than what my
consciousness felt worthy of.
>>LISA: Your set point.
>>SHIMOFF: Exactly.
I hit my upper
limit, my set point,
and I started losing money.
And I mean, I was losing
it in all kinds of ways.
Now, fortunately, I remembered
what Marianne had said.
And I started working
on that consciousness,
on that self-love that felt
worthy of receiving it.
And so I turned it around.
And so I say to
people, when you're
saying, I want more
of this or that, ask,
do I have that worthiness?
Do I have that deep
feeling of self-love?
>>LISA: That makes
so much sense.
Because people see you the
way that you see yourself.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
>>LISA: So if you're
showing up in a room
playing small, and
not feeling worthy,
and not having a
lot of self-love,
that's how you
will be perceived.
And then we wonder, well,
they don't see my value.
But if you turn that around
and have the practice first--
>>SHIMOFF: That's right--
>>LISA: --raising
your consciousness,
raising the self--
>>SHIMOFF: And I
think the universe,
it said that people
won't give to you more
than what you feel worthy of.
I believe the universe
is the same way.
The universe will
not give to you
beyond what you feel worthy of.
So we've got to
develop some self-love.
So how do we do that?
>>LISA: Well, it's that
responsibility thing, too.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, that's right.
>>LISA: Taking responsibility
for feeling worthy,
loved, compassionate.
Showing up that way,
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, and then
watch what the energy does.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: OK, So simple
practice, and it's--
when we love something,
we take care of it, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: You know, you
take care of things--
but what we don't do is we
don't take care of ourselves.
We're sending a message that
we're not worthy of that.
So what I want you
to do is ask yourself
this question a couple of
times a day, a simple question,
even write it on
a little Post-It.
Question is, what's
the most loving thing I
could do for myself right now?
What's the most loving thing I
And then you stop,
and you do it.
It could be, I could
take some water.
It could be, I
could call a friend.
It could be, I could do
that inner ease technique.
It doesn't matter
what the answer is.
What matters is your
training yourself
to take care of yourself.
And it shows yourself that
you're being more self-loving.
>>LISA: I love that.
It sends the
message to yourself.
And it's small things.
You don't have to
do anything huge.
>>SHIMOFF: No, you're not going
to go out and save the world.
>>LISA: Yeah, you're just doing
small things to give, give,
give back to yourself.
And then it tells the
brain, the psyche.
I'm worth that.
I'm taking care of.
One of the most primal
human needs is to feel safe
and to feel loved.
Those two things
go hand in hand.
And when you do little
micro things like that,
it makes a lot of sense.
>>SHIMOFF: It does.
It does.
>>LISA: I love it.
>>SHIMOFF: You know,
I want to go back
to our conversation
about what is a miracle.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: Because
miracles can be anything.
It could be, you pick up
a book, and it has in it
exactly what it was you
needed to hear right then.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: It could be the
person calls you on the phone
that has your answer or
that you needed to talk to--
small miracles all day long,
just that feeling-- the parking
place shows up.
Synchronicity.
Then, there are big miracles.
The big miracles.
Finding your soul mate.
We had so many
people that I know
that we have trained
these things, to move
into the miracle zone,
they've learned these things.
And they've been trying
to get pregnant for years,
and they suddenly get pregnant.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHIMOFF: Or their
ideal job shows up,
or money comes in the mail
that they weren't expecting.
They needed that $3,000
to pay off something,
and it just showed up
exactly when they needed it.
There's even a story that--
>>LISA: Well, I mean, do you
have to graduate into this?
Like, miracles are accessible
to everyone, right?
>>SHIMOFF: They are.
They're accessible to everybody.
They're around us all day long.
It's up to us to put
ourselves in that space.
And then there's
extreme stories, like,
the Marcel Sternberger story.
>>LISA: Yes, yes, Marcel.
I want you to
actually take a look
at this wonderful
video of her talking
about a miracle
in someone's life.
Take a look.
>>SHIMOFF: Hi,
I'm Marci Shimoff.
And welcome to our
happiness community.
I want to talk with you today
about a really cool subject--
miracles.
Now some of you know
that I have gotten
to co-author a number
of books in the "Chicken
Soup for the Soul"
series, and I've
been very fortunate to read
over 20,000 stories that
have been submitted to
the Chicken Soup books
over the years.
And I have read so many stories
about incredible, incredible
miracles.
So let me share with you
today one of my favorites.
It's really quite amazing.
It's a story about a man
named Marcel Sternberger.
And Marcel was
living in New York.
And he boarded everyday the
same subway, his 909 subway
into work.
And this one day, he ended
up taking a different subway.
And he gets on,
and there he sees--
he sits down next to a man who's
reading a Hungarian newspaper.
And Marcel was from Hungary.
And so he looked at the man and
he said, where are you from?
And what brought you here?
And the man said,
well, I was in Hungary,
and I had, really, to
escape the country.
And it was very sad.
I left my wife and the
rest of my family behind.
And they were all killed.
I went back to our village,
and really nobody was left,
and I came to America
about a year ago.
And at hearing this,
Marcel thought, wow,
this sounds really familiar.
About a week ago, he had been
at a party of some friends.
And he had heard a
very similar story
with the same village
even involved.
And he looked at the man and
he said, what's your name?
And the man said, well,
my name's Bela Paskin.
And the man said, what
was your wife's name?
And he said, well,
my wife, she's dead.
But it was Maria.
And Marcel took the man by
his hand and said, come on,
we have to get off
the train right away.
I have to make a phone call.
And they get off the
train, and he calls up
this phone number of this
woman he had met at a party
the prior week.
He gets on the phone
with her and he says,
what was your husband's name?
And she said, well,
my husband, he's dead,
but his name was Bela Paskin.
Marcel hands the phone to Bela
and said, this is a miracle.
This is your wife
on the other line.
Please tell her hello.
It happened on a
Brooklyn subway.
I've told this story
many times and I still
get goose bumps telling it.
Miracles can happen in our
life when we are open to them.
And you know, most
of us don't have
miracles like that
happening regularly,
but we have simple,
everyday miracles happening.
So what I invite you
to do in your own life,
right now, today, and
over the next week or so,
notice the miracles that
are happening in your life.
Notice the little ones and give
gratitude for the little ones.
Because when you do give
gratitude for those,
then the big ones
begin to show up.
>>LISA: That story about
Marcel is incredible.
It's so beautiful.
And the fact that he was
just able to create that
without ever even expecting it--
what you're saying is,
anyone can do this.
It's micro-miracles when
you start to look for them,
and then you kind of evolve
into these major miracles.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
You know, there's this
principle that what
you put your attention on
grows stronger in your life.
And when you put
your attention on,
what are the
miracles showing up,
you start to get more of them.
So that's one
thing for everybody
to start to do, just
throughout your day, notice
what are the miracles.
Same thing we talked about with
happiness looking for the good.
Really register, wow, that was
miraculous what happened today.
And this is great awareness.
>>LISA: Now you
talked about mistakes
people make to prevent
themselves and letting go,
which we talked about.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, not letting go.
They hang on too long.
We talked about, they don't
have enough self-love.
So two more mistakes.
One of them is, they
picture the wrong things.
They use the power
of their minds
to visualize exactly what they
don't want to have happen.
And that's called worry.
>>LISA: Another default.
>>SHIMOFF: Any time that
we're stuck in worry,
and we're visualizing
the worst-case scenario,
the power of our vision is huge.
And what I found is that people
who live in the miracles zone
use that extraordinary
power of our minds
to visualize to the positive.
They visualize what
it is they want
to have happen during the day.
They visualize the
miracles happening.
They use that power in that way.
And I know you've used
this a lot in your life.
Can I do another little
demonstration with you?
>>LISA: Absolutely.
I was just going to share
a quick story, though.
This is one of the ways that--
my father has been
very, very sick.
And one of the
things that we just
kept saying six weeks, seven
weeks in the hospital, we
kept saying, you're going to
be at my house for Christmas.
Oh, yeah.
You're going to be at
my house for Christmas.
And in a couple
weeks, he's gonna
be in my house for Christmas.
That was the best gift ever.
>>SHIMOFF: What you did in
saying that was you actually
created a visual
with him being there,
around the table with
everybody at the tree.
They created a very
powerful visual image,
and visual images make
a huge difference.
So let's do this little
demonstration, OK?
So let's take your right arm
and put it straight ahead.
And what we're going
to do is twist around
in the direction of your arm.
You're going to twist
as far as you can
without moving the
rest of your body
and see where your
finger lands, OK?
Twist around.
And memorize the spot
where your finger lands,
and come on back to the front.
I hope everybody's doing
this along with us.
>>LISA: Do it at home.
Play along.
>>SHIMOFF: Play along.
OK, now, what I want
you to do, 20 seconds,
we'll just close our
eyes, don't move anything.
I want you to picture
yourself twisting around
the same way you just did.
But this time, I want
you to see yourself
easily and effortlessly
twisting so
that your finger lands
four or five inches farther
along the wall.
See where that would be, get a
picture of where that would be,
and just see yourself
twisting around
so that your finger lands
four to five inches farther.
Now open up your eyes, point
your finger straight ahead,
twist around in
that same direction,
and see where you landed.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
Beautiful.
>>SHIMOFF: Amazing, huh?
>>LISA: Could you
try that at home?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>SHIMOFF: I've done this
with thousands of people
all around the world.
And that's the power of
our minds, to visualize.
So every morning, wake up and
visualize your fabulous day.
Lisa, I woke up, and I said,
I get to play with Lisa today,
and we're going to
have a great time!
So just that energy
of visualizing
what you want to have happen.
>>LISA: Yes, I've
doing that, too.
I loved your little love notes.
So these, I love that these
are applicable to everyone--
everyone, no matter what.
>>SHIMOFF: And no
matter what age.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHIMOFF: That's
the other cool thing.
>>LISA: Even if you've been
a fatalistic thinker all
your life, you can change.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah, I mean there's
neuroplasticity in the brain.
We know you can change your
brain until the day you die.
And so we can change
all of these habits.
And once you start
to change the habits,
it becomes easier and easier.
Because it builds on itself.
>>LISA: Now the fourth mistake
is surrounding yourself
with the wrong people.
>>SHIMOFF: Yes.
>>LISA: Now I
would think, if you
go through all of these
steps with really clearing
your space, and finding
self-love, and doing
the visualization, the
people in your life
are going to maybe
start to change.
>>SHIMOFF: That's
actually accurate.
They do start to change.
Because like energy tends
to hang out together.
And it's said that we become
the average of the five people
we spend the most time with.
So I tell people, make a
little list of your five
and see if you want
to catch their energy.
There's a phenomenon
called emotional contagion.
And it says that we
catch the emotions
of the people around us, just
like we catch their colds.
So when you're around people
who are a bummer to be around,
you're catching that.
We're all energetic beings.
You walk into a room.
There's been an argument in
the room, the argument's over.
You can feel the
tension in the air.
And it's not that
you're a psychic.
It's that there were chemicals
released into the atmosphere
that people pick up on.
You're picking up
on the chemicals.
That's happening all day long
with everybody around you.
So what I found is that people
who want to live in the miracle
zone, they consciously
surround themselves
with a dream team, a
miracles dream team.
And you're on my miracles dream.
>>LISA: Yeah, and
you're on mine, too.
Well, together, so
your year of miracles
is a yearlong mentoring
program that you
co-created five years ago.
Tell us a little bit about that
and then the mentoring groups
within it.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah,
so what I found is
that becoming happier, raising
your happiness set point
is a formula.
And I found that living
in the miracle zone
is also a formula
that can be taught.
And so we did this experiment
where we gathered people from--
actually, 72 countries
have joined for a year.
This was five years ago.
We started with
about 1800 women.
And we went through
each month sharing
with people, with
them, how to raise--
how to live more in
the miracle zone--
in health, in
relationships, in money,
in every area of their life.
>>LISA: And created a community.
>>SHIMOFF: We
created a community.
And they have miracle
groups, that they
have a small group of
six to seven people,
where they support each
other's miracles happening.
You don't have to
do it on your own.
And they're having
miracle after miracle.
And one of my miracles this
year is that you're joining me.
>>LISA: Yes, I am so grateful.
>>SHIMOFF: Next program.
>>LISA: And I love the groups.
Because you have people
you've never met before--
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
>>LISA: --from all these
different walks of life,
and you're celebrating
each other's miracles.
>>SHIMOFF: And
you're intentioning
for these each other's
miracles, which super-charges
everybody's intention.
So what happens is, the
research from Lynne McTaggart,
our dear friend
and colleague, who
has shown that the power
of other people putting
their attention on your
intention is phenomenal.
>>LISA: Focused intention.
When you have eight or less
people focusing their energy,
as you said, the chemical--
even if it's virtual, if it's
on the phone, it doesn't matter.
>>SHIMOFF: That's right.
It doesn't matter.
>>LISA: It's non-local.
And you can get that
intention poured-- and love--
poured into the other person's
greatest, greatest good.
>>SHIMOFF: Yes.
>>LISA: It's incredible
how these miracles show up
in people's lives.
I mean, it really
is truly beautiful.
>>SHIMOFF: I pinch myself when
I just hear all these story
after story after story.
And you know, what I believe--
and I think you probably are
with me on this--
this is the time.
Now is the time on the planet
that we are needing this.
This is our time.
And I think it's
not an accident.
Whoever is listening
to this right
now, who's joining us right now,
their soul called them to this.
There's something about this
conversation that their soul is
saying, yes, that's--
I'm part of this.
>>LISA: Because trust me, there
is so much on the airwaves,
on the internet, that is
not this conversation.
And this is a ray of light.
This is actually a tool that
we need more than anything
right now, especially
with the negative news
and the divisiveness.
It has to happen like this and
that these little groups are
the little nucleuses around
the world that are creating
miracles from all different
countries, all different walks
of life.
It's really a beautifully
orchestrated, well thought-out
program.
>>SHIMOFF: Thank you.
>>LISA: It really is.
And it works.
>>SHIMOFF: It works.
That's the thing.
You know, I'm into results.
And it works.
And as you said, this
is what I believe
our planet needs these days.
>>LISA: So you said,
create the conditions
for miracles in your life.
Now you're not saying,
there's water into wine.
You're not saying that.
You don't have a
magic wand here.
>>SHIMOFF: No.
>>LISA: These are the
conditions, right?
>>SHIMOFF: Yes, and as I
say, if people would devote,
I would say, 5 to 10 minutes
a day to creating these
conditions, to doing these
simple practices that we
share--
and some of the things
don't even take extra time.
As you're going
through your day,
you're looking for the good.
You're looking for
the miraculous.
You're taking a minute and just
doing a little bit of this.
If people would do that,
they would see such shifts
in their life in such a
short time period that--
>>LISA: I met some of
these wonderful people,
and they have created
new businesses.
They've created
coaching-- certifications.
I mean, they've gotten
whole new lines of work--
health, incredible--
relationships.
>>SHIMOFF: Relationships,
where they hadn't talked
to a brother, or a mother--
>>LISA: Or a child.
>>SHIMOFF: Or a child for years.
And something melted.
>>LISA: I met one
of those women.
>>SHIMOFF: Yeah.
>>LISA: She just sat there
after days in the whole year
of the program.
And in the last
month of the program,
just sat sobbing because
she had not connected
with her daughter for years.
And she realized
it was her piece.
She realized her
piece in all of it.
And it shifted at
that moment, which
then will shift her
daughter, and her daughter's
children, and their children.
And she could break the
cycle of estrangement.
And I mean, it's so incredible.
And all it takes
is just a minute.
It just takes a minute.
My goodness.
Well, I ask all of my guests,
because I really want to know
and I'm curious.
What is your biggest
reason, Marcy?
why, why you do all this?
>>SHIMOFF: I love
that question, Lisa.
I really love that question.
And the reason I do
this, the reason I'm
so passionate about
people being happier
and people living
in the miracle zone
is that I believe it's
why we're on the planet.
And I believe-- people often
say is it selfish, Marci,
to want to be happier?
What about the world?
>>LISA: Yeah, the suffering.
>>SHIMOFF: The suffering.
And what I can say
is, I absolutely
believe that it's the least
selfish thing that we can do.
Because when we
are happier, when
we're living in
the miracle zone,
we are having this huge
impact on this planet of ours.
And there's a Chinese proverb,
you've been to my living room.
It hangs on-- a wall hanging in
my living room, and I love it.
It sums up why I do this.
It goes like this.
It says, when there
is light in the soul,
there will be beauty
in the person.
When there is beauty
in the person,
there will be
harmony in the house.
When there is
harmony in the house,
there will be order
in the nation.
And when there is
order in the nation,
there will be peace
in this world.
And that is my prayer and
my wish for everyone--
>>LISA: It's beautiful.
>>SHIMOFF: --that We all
know that light in our souls,
that we live that.
And through that, we create
a planet here of peace.
>>LISA: Wow, you're
living it, girl.
Thank you so much for being
with me and for showing us
what it really, truly means
to live in the miracle zone.
Thank you so much.
>>SHIMOFF: Thank you, Lisa.
Wonderful.
>>LISA: Thank you.
And thank you so much for
doing these exercises with us.
Please continue to practice
this on a daily basis
multiple times a day.
And thank you so
much for joining me.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
you can check out
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.